CS361 Questions: Week 1
These questions relate to Module(s) 1. Type your answers and submit them via
email to the TA by 5pm on Thursday, June 12.
Lecture 1
1. What uses of the term “security” are relevant to your everyday life?
-Personal Security
-Homeland Security
-Energy Security

2. What do these have in common?
They all protect assets against threats.

3. Have you been a victim of lax security?
Yes.

4. What is the likelihood that your laptop is infected? How did you decide?
70%. The operating system I use, the sites I visit and the date since I last checked.

5. What security measures do you employ on your laptop?
None.

6. Do you think they are probably effective?
No.

7. Consider the quote from the FBI official on slide 10. Do you think it overstates
the case? Justify your answer.
I don't think it is an overstatement because everything is digital and someone could hack our missile system and blow up our country within.

8. What is the importance in learning about computer security?
To allow peace of mind knowing your actions on the computer are only your knowledge.


Lecture 2
1. Consider the five reasons given why security is hard. Can you think of other
factors?
You cannot control the person.

2. Is there a systematic way to enumerate the “bad things” that might happen
to a program? Why or why not?
No because there could be an endless way to hack into a program.

3. Explain the asymmetry between the defender and attacker in security.
Attacker only has to find one fault while the defender has to protect against all.

4. Examine the quotes from Morris and Chang. Do you agree? Why or why
not?
I agree because humans write code and humans aren't perfect so the code can't be perfect.

5. Explain the statement on slide 8 that a tradeoff is typically required.
You could make a program totally secure but it will take 5 years but you only have two and you also have to make it look good so it cannot be to complex for your average user. All this takes time and you only have so much of it.

Lecture 3
1. Define “risk”?
The possibility that a particular threat will impact an information system by exploiting a weakness.

2. Do you agree that software security is about managing risk?
Yes.

3. Name and explain a risk you accept, one you avoid, one you mitigate, and
one you transfer?
Driving while texting.
Going down alleys in the dark.
Allowing my friend to drive instead of me.
Buying insurance so they will pay for any damages.

4. Evaluate annualized loss expectancy as a risk management tool.
Its a good tool that allows you to shift focus in places that might not be as obvious.

5. List some factors relevant to rational risk assessment.
Logical rational, thinking all the scenarios through and giving them the correct risk level.

Lecture 4
1. Explain the key distinction between the lists on slides 2 and 3.
One is a tool to implement the methodology of the other.

2. Consider your use of computing in your personal life. Which is most important:
confidentiality, integrity, availability? Justify your answer.
Availability. I want youtube to work when I want it to work.

3. What does it mean “to group and categorize data”?
It means to put data with equal sensitivity in the same folder.

4. Why might authorizations change over time?
Promotions, Firing, new policies.

5. Some of the availability questions seem to relate more to reliability than to
security. How are the two related?
Because if your are relying on a certain service in your overall plan then you need to secure it. How is the president going to contact his generals if the telephone line isn't available?

6. In what contexts would authentication and non-repudiation be considered
important?
When you are shopping online for instance.

Lecture 5
1. Describe a possiblemetapolicy for a cell phone network? Amilitary database?
Cutting expenses.
All communications should be encrypted.

2. Why do you need a policy if you have a metapolicy?
There is only 1 metapolicy but multiple policies for every aspect of the metapolicy can exist.

3. Give three possible rules within a policy concerning students’ academic
records.
No one but the student and admin can see grades without consent.
Records should not be allowed to change after a certain time.
Records should be stored in a secure area under watch.

4. Could stakeholders’ interest conflict in a policy? Give an example.
Yes. A company could plan to be more ecofriendly which might cost more money but stake holders only care about profits so they see it as an annoyance.

5. For the example given involving student SSNs, state the likely metapolicy.
SSNS will be secure.

6. Explain the statement: ”If you don’t understand the metapolicy, it becomes
difficult to justify and evaluate the policy.”
If you don't see the big picture then of course you won't understand the details of it.

Lecture 6
1. Why is military security mainly about confidentiality? Are there also aspects
of integrity and availability?
Because there could be spies. Yes espionage does exist.

2. Describe the major threat in our MLS thought experiment.
That someone who is not top secret can read top secret.

3. Why do you think the proviso is there?
I think the proviso is there because integrity and availability require different methods to secure.

4. Explain the form of the labels we’re using.
Basically the label is the sensitivity level of the document.

5. Why do you suppose we’re not concerned with how the labels get there?
Thats an integrity issue.

6. Rank the facts listed on slide 6 by sensitivity.
Unclassified.
Top secret.
Unclassified.
Confidential
Confidential
Secret
So on.

7. Invent labels for documents containing each of those facts.
Base Activies
War Plan
Cafeteria Menus
Budget
Budget
New War Updates

8. Justify the rules for “mixed” documents.
It allows a document to live in multiple folders if it has information regarding those folders.

Lecture 7
1. Document labels are stamped on the outside. How are “labels” affixed to
humans?
Information they have access too.

2. Explain the difference in semantics of labels for documents and labels for
humans.
Labels are ranked on sensitivity.
Humans are ranked on clearance of information.

3. In the context of computers what do you think are the analogues of documents?
Of humans?
In computures its files.
Humans are experiences.

4. Explain why the Principle of Least Privilege makes sense.
The janitor doesn't need to know the war plan even if he is the most trusting guy.

5. For each of the pairs of labels on slide 6, explain why the answers in the
third column do or do not make sense.
Secret can read secret.
Secret cannot read top secret.
Anyone can read unclassified.

Lecture 8:
1. Why do you think we introduced the vocabulary terms: objects, subjects,
actions?
Allows generalization.

2. Prove that dominates is a partial order (reflexive, transitive, antisymmetric).
Reflexive: All confidential documents can be read by people in the Confidentail cleanance.
Antisymmetric: If x performs an action on y and y performs an action on x then x = y.
Transient: If x can read y and y can read z then x can read z.

3. Show that dominates is not a total order.
because l1 cant dominate l2 and l2 cant dominate l1 at the same time.

4. What would have to be true for two labels to dominate each other?
they would be the same label.

5. State informally what the the Simple Security property says.
You can only read object o if you have clearance that is at least level o.

6. Explain why it’s “only if” and not “if and only if.”
Because if your confidential you want to be able to read confidential not only if your above confidential..

Lecture 9
1. Why isn’t Simple Security enough to ensure confidentiality?
Because it doesn't pertain to write access.

2. Why do we need constraints on write access?
Because someone could write some boogus stuff! or copy it to somewhere else.

3. What is it about computers, as opposed to human beings, that makes that
particularly important?
It is so easy to do especially with malware.

4. State informally what the *-Property says.
A user can write only to objects that are his level and above.

5. What must be true for a subject to have both read and write access to an
object?
You must be at least the object levels to read it and you can only write it to places your level and above.

6. How could we deal with the problem that the General (top secret) can’t send
orders to the private (Unclassified)?
allow general access to allow levels.

7. Isn’t it a problem that a corporal can overwrite the war plan? Suggest how
we might deal with that.
Its an integrity problem we can't deal with that yet unless we made him take truth serum.

Lecture 10:
1. Evaluate changing a subject’s level (up or down) in light of weak tranquility.
It would allow a label to be changed without altering the contents. big problem since it is up to the user.

2. Why not just use strong tranquility all the time?
Because a person could get promoted and his level changed.

3. Explain why lowering the level of an object may be dangerous.
Because it could contain information that could be secret but most is unclassified but it could be a huge secret!

4. Explain what conditions must hold for a downgrade (lowering object level)
to be secure.
If everything in the file is on that level then it is acceptable.

Lecture 11:
1. Suppose you wanted to build a (library) system in which all subjects had
read access to all files, but write access to none of them. What levels could
you give to subjects and objects?
Subject level: (H,{A,B,C})
Object level: (L,{A,B,C})

2. Why wouldn’t you usually build an access controlmatrix for a BLP system?
Because it would be huge!

Lecture 12
1. Suppose you had hierarchical levels L, H with H > L, but only had one
category A. Draw the lattice. (Use your keyboard and editor to draw it; it
doesn’t have to be fancy.)

           (H, A)
/\                     /\
||					   ||

(L,A) < -- (L,{}) --> (H,{})

2. Given any two labels in a BLP system, what is the algorithm for finding
their LUB and GLB?
Lattice
3. Explain why upward flow in the lattice really is the metapolicy for BLP.
Because thats originally what we intended for and that is the defintion of a metapolicy.

Lecture 13
1. Explain how the BLP rules are supposed to enforce the metapolicy in the
example on slide 1.
The BLP rules say that any information that goes H -> L is in violation and that it should only flow upward.

2. Argue that the READ and WRITE operations given satisfy BLP.
The BLP prevents people who arent at least the level allowed to read it and you have to be writing it at something of a higher level to affect its contents.

3. Argue that the CREATE and DESTROY operations given satisfy BLP.
You cannot create something that is already existed and if it does exist you cannot change the level of it since it will stay the same forever.The only way to destroy something is if the person with a level higher than the object is allowed to get rid of it.

4. What has to be true for the covert channel on slide 5 to work?
You have to have a feedback mechanism.

5. Why is the DESTROY statement there?
To cover the tracks.

6. Are the contents of any files different in the two paths?
No

7. Why does SL do the same thing in both cases? Must it?
Yes because it is SL and it cant affect SH

8. Why does SH do different things? Must it?
Because SH can affect itself.

9. Justify the statement on slide 7 that begins: “If SL ever sees...”
It should never see SH at all. information should flow upward.

Lecture 14
1. Explain why “two human users talking over coffee is not a covert channel.”
Coffee was made for talking.

2. Is the following a covert channel? Why or why not?
Send 0 | Send 1
------------------------------------------
Write (SH, F0, 0) | Write (SH, F0, 1)
Read (SL, F0) | Read (SL, F0)

Yes because SL accesses SH

3. Where does the bit of information transmitted “reside” in Covert Channel
#1?

in the system state.


4. In Covert Channel #2?
system clock

5. In Covert Channel #3?

storage chanel on hard drive
6. In Covert Channel #4?
control flow

7. Why might a termination channel have low bandwidth?
sends data that doesnt have often

8. What would have to be true to implement a power channel?
access battery readings

9. For what sort of devices might power channels arise?
mobile devices


Lecture 15
1. Explain why covert channels, while appearing to have such a low bandwidth,
can potentially be very serious threats.
You can transfer alot of data within that

2. Why would it be infeasible to eliminate every potential covert channel?
There is infinite.

3. If detected, how could one respond appropriately to a covert channel?
Modify an existing system.

4. Describe a scenario in which a covert storage channel exists.
2 users can read and at least one can modifty.

5. Describe how this covert storage channel can be utilized by the sender and
receiver.
Because they both must have access to some part of the file.

Lecture 16
1. Why wouldn’t the “create” operation have an R in the SRMM for the “file
existence” attribute?
Does not reference anything just changes it.

2. Why does an R and M in the same row of an SRMM table indicate a potential
channel?
Modify and read them.

3. If an R and M are in the same column of an SRMM table, does this also
indicate a potential covert channel? Why or why not?
If yo created something you werent allowed to you would get notified by your feedback mechanism.

4. Why would anyone want to go through the trouble to create an SRMM
table?

To find covert channels.