John Cade Griffin
EID: jcg3335

Homework 5


Lecture 66

1. What is PGP?
An email encryption tool that packages elements of the best strong encryption methods

2. What motivated Phil Zimmerman to develop it?
He has a strong distrust of the government

3. Does PGP provide effective security?
yes, it is very difficult to crack

4. If PGP is freeware, why would anyone bother to purchase support?
a lot of companies do not like to use freeware, they prefer to have maintenance support


Lecture 67

1. Explain the PGP authentication protocol.
Sender Creates a message M
Sender generates a hash of M
Sender signs the hash using his private key and prepends the result to the message
REciever uses the senders public key to verify the signature and recover the hash code
Receiver generates a new has code for M and compares it with the decrypted has code

2. Explain the PGP confidentiality protocol.
Sender takes the message and generates a new session key, encrypts the message with the session key, then encrypt the key with the reciever's public key. The reciever can use his private key to decrypt the session key and use the session key to decrypt the message

3. How do you get both authentication and confidentiality?
take the two pieces and put them together


Lecture 68

1. Besides authentication and confidentiality, what other “services” does PGP provide?
compression, email compatability, segmentation
2. Why is compression needed?
it is preferable to sign an uncompressed message, encryption after compression  strenghtns the encryption
3. Why sign a message and then compress, rather than the other way around?
so the signature doesn not depend on the compression algorithm

4. Explain radix-64 conversion and why it’s needed?
many email systems would choke on certain bit strings theyd interpret as control commands. Radix-64 t conversion maps groups of three octects into four ASCII characters. It also appends a CRC for data erro checking.

5. Why is PGP segmentation needed?
some email systems have a limit on the size of messages it can send


Lecture 69

1. What are the four kinds of keys used by PGP?
 one-time session symmetric keys, public keys, private keys, and passphrase-based symmetric keys

2. What special properties are needed of session keys?
they must be unpredictable, used once and generated for each new message
3. How are session keys generated?
take the previous session key and ge

CAST-128 is used to generate the key from a previous session key and two 64-bit blocks generated based on user keystrokes, including keystroke timing. The two 64-bit blocks are encrypted using CAST-128 and the previous key, and concatenated to form the new key.

4. Assuming RSA is used for PGP asymmetric encryption, how are the keys generated?
an odd number n of sufficient size (usually >200 bits) is generated and tested for primality. If its not prime, then repeat with another randomly generated number until a prime is found

5. How are the private keys protected? Why is this necessary?

private keys are stored in an encrypted form and decrypted using a user generated passphrase



Lecture 70

1. If a user has multiple private/public key pairs,how does he know which was used when he receives an encrypted message?
An ID is generated that is likely to be unique for a given user. (least significant 64 bits of the public key)

2. What’s on a user’s private key ring?
a table of rows containing: timestamp, key ID, public key, private key, user ID

3. What’s on a user’s public key ring?
timestamp, key ID, public key, User ID

4. What are the steps in retrieving a private key from the key ring?
pgp asks for passphrase, pw is hashed, and then used to decrypt private key

5. What is the key legitimacy field for?
indicates the extent to which pgp trusts that this is a valid public key for this user

6. How is a key revoked?
the owner issues a signed key revocation certificate


Lecture 71

1. Explain the difference between the consumer and producer problems. Which is more prevalent?
consumer problem: the attacker gets logically between the client and service and somehow disrupts the communication (Aka man in the middle)
producer problem: the attacker produces, offors or requests so many services that the server is overwhelmed (more common)

2. Explain syn flooding.
in a producer attack, relying on the properties of a particular protocol (like a tcp 3 way handshake)
 A syn flooding attack happens when an attacker forges the return address on a number of SYN packets. All legitimate accesses are denied until the connections time out

3. Why are the first three solutions to syn flooding not ideal?
increasing the queue size: could consume considerable resources
shorten time out period: might disallow connections by slower clients
filter suspicious packets: may be hard to determine



Lecture 72

1. Why does packet filtering work very well to prevent attacks?
a good packet filtering can help prevent confidentiality attacks, and integrity attacks as well

2. What are the differences between intrusion detection and intrusion prevention systems?

IDS: can analyze traffic patterns and react to anomalous patterns. IDS reacts after the attack has begun
IPS: attempts to prevent intrusions by more aggressively blocking attempted attacks

IDS assumes something has already happen, IPS tries to prevent it from coming in at all

3. Explain the four different solutions mentioned to DDoS attacks.

over provisioning: have too many servers to be overwhelmed
filtering: somehow distinguish the attack packets
slow down processing: disadvantages all requestors
speak up : request additional traffic from all requestors



Lecture 73

1. Explain false positive and false negatives. Which is worse?
false neg: a genuine attack is not detected
false pos: harmless behavior is misclassified as an attack
which is worse depends on the situation

2. Explain what “accurate” and “precise” mean in the IDS context.
accurate: detects all genuine attacks
precise: never reports legitimate behavior as an attack

3. Explain the statement: “It’s easy to build an IDS that is either accurate or precise?
its very difficult to prevent both false positives and false negatives

4. What is the base rate fallacy? Why is it relevant to an IDS?
if attacks are relatively rare you have to get a very high degree of accuracy for the system to be usefull


Lecture 74

1. What did Code Red version 1 attempt to do?
used a vulnerbility in microsoft IIS webservers. If date was between 1st and 19th of the month, generate a random list of IP addresses and attempt to attack those machines. On 20th and 28th, launched a DOS attack on the White House, also defaced some webpages with "hacked by chinese"

2. Why was Code Red version 1 ineffective?
used static seed in its random number gen and thus generated identical lists of ip addresses on each infected machine
each infected machine probed the same list of machines so the worm spread slowly
the IP address for www1.whitehouse.gov ewas changed so teh DoS attack failed

3. What does it mean to say that a worm is “memory resident”? What are the implications.
it resided in the volatile memory, so rebooting it removed the worm.

4. Why was Code Red version 2 much more effective than version 1?
had a randomly generated seed



Lecture 75

1. How was Code Red II related to Code Red (versions 1 and 2)?
not clear, except that the writer of CRII knew about CRI

2. Why do you suppose Code Red II incorporated its elaborate propogation scheme?
if you use the same prefix you are on the same subnet and these machines are probably running similar software and you may have more luck infecting those machines

3. What did Code Red II attempt to do?
installed a mechanism for remote access to the machine

4. Comment on the implications of a large population of unpatched machines.
these vulnerbilities can be capitalized on and utilized to infect machines

5. Comment on the report from Verizon cited on slide 6. What are the lessons of their study?
people have a false sense of security and we are really lousy about patching our machines



Lecture 76

1. Why is a certification regime for secure products necessary and useful? 
allows someone with more expertise to evaluate various systems instead of the layman

2. Explain the components of an evaluation standard.
a set of requirements defining sec functionality, assurance requirements needed for establishing the functional requirements, methodology for determining that the functional requirements are met, a measure of the evaluation result indicating the trustworthiness of the evaluated system

3. Why would crypto devices have a separate evaluation mechanism?
because cryptology is particularly sensitive and there are not as many experts in this area

4. Explain the four levels of certification for crypto devices.
Level 	1: basic security
		2: improved physical security, tamper evident packaging
		3: strong tamper resistance and countermeasures
		4: complete envelope of protection including immediate zeroing of keys upon tampering



Lecture 77

1. What is the Common Criteria?
the set of criteria developed to evaluate secure systems that is commonly accepted. Its a set of documents and a methodology for applying the criteria

2. What’s “common” about it?
that it is shared amongs 26 countries


3. Why would there be any need for “National Schemes”?
each country may have an specific emphasis on certain areas of security requirements

4. Explain the difference between a protection profile and a security target.
a document describing a security policy for a particular class of systems vs evaluation of a product



Lecture 78

1. Explain the overall goal of the protection profile as exemplified by the WBIS example.
illustrates the components of a protection profile, describes what security means for a particular class of systems

2. What is the purpose of the various parts of the protection profile (as exemplified in the WBIS example)?
Environmental assumptions, threats, organizational security policies, objectives, requirements

3. What is the purpose of the matrix on slide 7?
if you fill in the matrix with sec objective and requirements and every row has an x, then you know that you have thought about it carefully enough that all threats have a mechanism to address them. 



Lecture 79

1. Explain the overall goal of the security target evaluation as exemplified by the Sun Identity Manager example.
managing user access priviledges stored in directory services

2. How do you think that a security target evaluation differs from a protection profile evaluation?
security target is for a specific target, I think of it as a policy while protection profile is more of a meta policy


Lecture 80

1. What are the EALs and what are they used for?
eval assurance levels, represents the degree to which a system is tested

2. Who performs the Common Criteria evaluations?
governments or certifying agencies

3. Speculate why the higher EALs are not necessarily mutually recognized by various countries.
you add more and more rigor to the development process, this rigor could vary amongst differenc countries

4. Can vendors certify their own products? Why or why not?
tests must be performed by an independent organization accredited to perfrom CC testing

5. If you’re performing a formal evaluation, why is it probably bad to reverse engineer the model from the code?
because formal mathematical methods were used for the design



