Name: Brian Jenkins
EID: baj645
CS Login: baj645
Email: bjenkins92@gmail.com

Lecture 53:
1. So that that signature cannot be removed and then used on another message
2. Because public key encryption can be quite expensive
3. It is unforgeable, authentic, has non-repudiation, tamperproof, and not reusable

Lecture 54:
1. To ensure the accuracy of the certificate
2. Because only X has his private key so it ensures that X really signed it
3. To ensure that the message was not tampered in any way
4. It might not correctly decrypt X's private key

Lecture 55:
1. There needs to be some sort of unimpeachable authority
2. To say how long it is valid for. Once a certificate reaches its expiration date, it is no longer valid
3. Then the message has likely been tampered with or it is at least not the same as when sent

Lecture 56:
1. X.509, IP
2. Then there is a potential loss of confidentiality and/or integrity
3. Because otherwise you cannot reach inside the outer encryption to unlock yours
4. If a hacker had eavesdropped and collected the 3 messages can XOR them to not only get the message content but also the keys
5. If he stores the three messages and XORs (MxKa) with ((MxKa)xKb)
6. If he stores the 3 messages and XORs MxKa and (MxKa)xKb
7. Because ensuring absolute security is almost impossible, and the harder you try to make it secure, the more complex the protocol becomes

Lecture 57:
1. Protocols are important so that there is a set syntax, semantics, and synchronization so that parties can easily and effectively communicate
2. Cryptographic protocols are important because they accomplish a security-related function such as confidentiality, integrity, unicity, etc. in the wide open hostile environment that is the internet
3. That both parties have the public key corresponding to the others' private key
4. That both parties have the new key, can use it, and both know the other user is who they are and received the message
5. Yes, because each party used their private key that acts as their signature saying that it was really them that got the key
6. Because if an attacker had a previous message, he can initiate a new protocol run with the message, giving the attacker the original K

Lecture 58:
1. So that when B receives the message he can easily figure out where he is in the protocol
2. Because encryption and decryption are expensive, so doing unnecessary steps like these are very costly

Lecture 59:
1. Because the best attacks are ones that the defender did not even think of
2. An attacker can confuse parties or disrupt message flow
3. Yes, an attack's purpose could be to instead disrupt or subvert instead of stealing information
4. An attacker cannot create an arbitrary message
5. An attacker won't know anything about the current run except for what it has seen and received

Lecture 60:
1. No, the nonces ensure the freshness of the message
2. 	1: That it wants to communicate with B; That A wants to speak to B and to generate a key for said purpose
	2: This is the key used for communication between A and B; that these keys will allow discreet communication
	3: The key for communication; that A wants to communicate and this is the key
	4: That B has the key; that B received the key A sent
	5: That A received B's confirmation of receiving the key; A has the key and knows B has the key

Lecture 61:
1. B does not know that the original key is no longer safe
2. It can be if the key is easy to obtain, as was seen with the Needham-Schroeder Protocol
3. Have an additional step where S also messages B the nonce Na so that when A or C tries to make contact with B at message three, it would require the nonce A used when first generating the key

Lecture 62:
1. It guarantees that both parties are who they say that they are
2. Needham-Schroeder guarantees that both parties get the messages, whereas Otway-Ress guarantees that both parties are who they claim to be
3. Add nonces that show whether this is actually an old message being sent again

Lecture 63:
1. To ensure protocols actually achieve what they are trying to accomplish
2. A reasoning about principles of a protocol by inferring from the messages seen
3. Beliefs are extracted from the messages flying around within a program

Lecture 64:
1. A logic model utilizing abstraction and beliefs which would normally be intuitive
2. That only B could send something with a key that only B has
3. If A got a new message from B then B must have sent said message
4. An expert in a field is a credible source in that matter
5. Idealization transforms a protocol into a logical goal that the sender or recipient is trying to accomplish

Lecture 65:
1. Because the idealization is to figure out why a message was sent, not the actual textual content in a message
2. Because some protocol steps are actually to ensure things such as unity or confidentiality at a later step
3. Because you have to reason from assumptions to the actual specific goals, and if the assumptions cannot lead to those, then they are exposed as false