CS361 Questions: Week 4


LECTURE 53

1. Why is it important for a digital signature to be non reusable?
	>To disallow another to reuse someone's signiture if it has been
	discovered.

2. Why is it the hash of the message typically signed, rather than the message
	>The hash allows for encoding of the message, adding to the security
	of the transaction and to show that the sender hashed the message.

3. What assurance does R gain from the interchange on slide 4?
	>R is assured that the message M came from S due to the signature.

LECTURE 54

1. What is the importance of certificate authorities?
	>There needs to be some formal regulation for credentials of parties
	for a user to be able to trust them with important and/or critical 
	information.

2. In the example on slide 5, why does X sign the hash of the first message
with its private key?
	>To prove that the message and verification actually came from X
	as the receiver will use X's public key to decrypt the hashed
	message, ensuring the validity.

3. Why is it necessary to have a hash of Y and Ky?
	>It is the original message that would prove any modification or 
	corruption of the second Y and Ky message that was attached later by X.

4. What would happen if Z had a public key for X, but it was not trustworthy?
	>A breach of the message Y and Ky can happen and it's contents
	shared with someone it was not intended for.

LECTURE 55

1. What happens at the root of a chain of trust?
	>The chief authority for the chain; a source that has unimpeachable
	authority.

2. Why does an X.509 certificate include a “validity interval”?
	>Identity's trust or credentials might change, so with an interval
	certificates must be re-obtained to ensure the update in trust-
	worthiness of an identity.

3. What would it mean if the hash and the received value did not match?
	>It means the message may have been modified or corrupted.

LECTURE 56

1. What are some protocols previously discussed?
	>Establishing trusts, using signatures, etc.

2. What may happen if one step of a protocol is ignored?
	>It may allow the opportunity for a breach of the information.

3. Why must the ciphers commute in order to accomplish the task in slide 4?
	>Applying the second  XOR of A to the message must be able to cancel
	 the inner XOR with A to work. 

4. Describe how an attacker can extract M from the protocol in slide 6.
	>They can extract Ka and Kb by the methods below and XOR different
	combinations until the information is uncovered.

5. Describle how an attacker can extract Ka from the protocol in slide 6.
	>They can XOR the second message with the third.

6. Describle how an attacker can extract Kb from the protocol in slide 6.
	>They can XOR the first message with the second.

7. Why are cryptographic protocols difficult to design and easy to get wrong?
	>One wrong step and the information is vulnerable as various steps may
	give hints to the decoding of the information.

LECTURE 57

1. Explain the importance of protocols in the context of the internet.
	>Protocols allow safer and more secure exchange of information
	between parties on the internet.

2. Explain the importance of cryptographic protocols in the context of the
internet?
	>They allow measures to be taken in order to more securely protect
	your information used in transactions on the internet.

3. What are the assumptions of the protocol in slide 6?
	>That the messages are delivered to their recipients.

4. What are the goals of the protocol in slide 6?
	>To exchange a secret key between A and B.

5. Are the goals of the protocol in slide 6 satisfied? Explain.
	>They both recieve a key from the other, but one may not recieve the
	message.

6. How is the protocol in slide 6 flawed?
	>A message from one may never make it to the other.


LECTURE 58

1. Why is it important to know if a protocol includes unnecessary steps or
messages?
	>Yes as it adds to the noise of a transaction.

2. Why is it important to know if a protocol encrypts items that could be sent
in the clear?
	>It is taking unecessary steps to encrypt the information that does
	not need to be encrypted.

LECTURE 59

1. Why might it be difficult to answer what constitutes an attack on a crypto-
graphic protocol?
	>There are many aspects to be considered when determining what
	constitutes an attack, as it may not affect the message at all.

2. Describe potential dangers of a replay attack.
	>They may be used to coax a response message from a principle to use
	in gathering more information.

3. Are there attacks where an attacker gains no secret information? Explain.
	>They may gain information that may not have needed to be encrypted
	in the first place.

4. What restrictions are imposed on the attacker?
	>They are limited to the context of the messages; what each party is
	expecting from the other or the next message they are to recieve.

5. Why is it important that protocols are asynchronous?
	>For other intervening parties to know what the current run of a
	protocol may be.

LECTURE 60

1. Would the Needham-Schroeder protocol work without nonces?
	>No, as the "freshness" of a message could not be guaranteed.

2. For each step of the NS protocol, answer the two questions on slide 5.
	>1: A wants create a key with B/The message is fresh
	>2: S sends Kab to A / A believes it has a key with B
	>3: A wants to share key with B / key is secure
	>4: B responds with nonce to assure receipt of key/ B has the key
	>5: A responds to B to assure receipt/ A and B's key work

LECTURE 61

1. As in slide 5, if A’s key were later changed, after having Kas compromised,
how could A still be impersonated?
	>An attacker could still use Kas to send messages to the server to 
	try and generate new keys.

2. Is it fair to ask the question of a key being broken?
	>Yes as you want to explore any means of preventing attacks.

3. How might you address these flaws if you were the protocol designer?
	>Find ways to obstruct any way I can think of attacking the protocol.

LECTURE 62

1. What guarantees does Otway-Rees seem to provide to A and B?
	>The keys have been authenticated by S.

2. Are there guarantees that Needham-Schroeder provides that Otway-Rees
does not or vice versa?
	>Yes, as Otway-Rees utilizes S to secure and validate most of the
	information.

3. How could you fix the flawed protocol from slide 4?
	>Swap how K is wrapped: {{K}Kb}Ka-1

LECTURE 63

1. Why is the verification of protocols important?
	>The protocols must be secure and well played-out to be as secure as
	possible.

2. What is a belief logic?
	>Logic based on what principles believe during certain stages of a
	protocol.

3. A protocol is a program; where do you think beliefs come in?
	>When messages are received.

LECTURE 64

1. What is a modal logic?
	>Logic that is used to qualify the truth of a judgement.

2. Explain the intuition behind the message meaning inference rule.
	>A recieves secret X with key K that is shared with B, thus A believes
	B sent X.

3. Explain the intuition behind the nonce verification inference rule.
	>B sent fresh information to A, thus B must believe A if it was sent.

4. Explain the intuition behind the jurisdiction inference rule.
	>If A believes B, then A believes anything that B has jurisdiction 
	over and believes.

5. What is idealization and why is it needed?
	>A process that attempts to turn the message sent into its intended
	semantics. It is needed to understand the various beliefs that are
	understood during each step of a protocol.

LECTURE 65

1. Why do you think plaintext is omitted in a BAN idealization?
	>Because it can be modified/corrupted.

2. Some idealized steps seem to refer to beliefs that will happen later in the
protocol. Why would that be?
	>To see what effect each step has on the assumptions ofthe protocol.

3. One benefit of a BAN proof is that it exposes assumptions. Explain that.
	>By outlining the beliefs of each principle at certain stages you are
	able to identify and determine various assumptions that may lead to 
	vulnerabilities in the communication between the principles.
