Name: Brian Jenkins
EID: baj645
CS Login: baj645
Email: bjenkins92@gmail.com

Lecture 66:
1. An encryption algorithm for protecting emails
2. He had a strong distrust of the government
3. Yes, even the FBI was unable to decrypt it
4. So that they can contact a company if anything goes wrong

Lecture 67:
1. It uses a private key and a hash so that the receiver knows it was sent by the right person and was not corrupted
2. It uses the receivers public key and a session key to ensure only the receiver can decrypt the small efficient session key used to decrypt the message
3. By combining the confidentiality and authentication protocols on a single message

Lecture 68:
1. Compression, email compatibility, and segmentation
2. To save bandwidth when sending over the internet
3. So that the signature does not depend on the compression algorithm
4. Radix-64 takes 3 bytes and turns it into a four byte ascii char so that any system can handle the message
5. Because email systems restrict the message length so messages need to be broken up

Lecture 69:
1. Session keys, public keys, private keys, and passphrase-based keys
2. They need to be of a certain length and can only be used once
3. They are randomly generated by encrypting random entropy with the old key
4. Large random numbers are continually generated until they are prime to generate the public and private keys
5. They are protected by a passphrase that is hashed so that an attacker can't easily access the private key. A compromised private key completely voids the point of having a private key

Lecture 70:
1. An ID is generated for a pair that is likely to be unique that will be included in a message
2. The user's own private keys and any information such as the timestamp, keyID, public key, private key, and userID
3. The public keys of other people you communicate with and information including the timestamp, keyID, public key, and userID
4. PGP grabs the private key based on the given keyID, PGP aks for the passphrase which is then hashed and compared to the true passphrase's hash, then if they match, PGP recovers the session key and decrypts themessage
5. It indicates how legitimate or trustworthy the key source is
6. The owner issues a signed key revoke certificate and any other users are expected to update their keyrings

Lecture 71:
1. The consumer problem is about disrupting communications between the consumer and client. The producer problem, which is more prevalent, is when the attacker sends so many service requests that the server is overwhelmed
2. An attacker sends a service request and does not respond when the server does the TCP handshake. Some of the server's resources are then tied up while waiting
3. More queue size would require too much resources and still may not have enough space for lots of attacks, shortening the time out period could disrupt legitimate slow clients, and filtering suspicious packets would be really hard to discern between attackers and legitimate clients

Lecture 72:
1. Because it can identify patterns to block attackers without disrupting legitimate requests
2. Intrusion detection analyzes patterns and then reacts afterword, whereas intrusion prevention tries to block attacks beforehand
3. Over-provision is about having so many servers that many requests could not overwhelm it, filtering attacks is about somehow distinguishing attackers from legitimate requests and blocking them, slowing the process is about making the attack process harder but at the expense of legitimate requests, and the "speak-up" solution which is about requesting additional traffic from all requests when under attack

Lecture 73:
1. A false negative is when an attack is not detected, and a false positive is when no danger is misrepresented as an attack. A false negative is likely more harmful, but it could differ depending on the scenario
2. Accurate means that all genuine attacks are detected (no false negatives), whereas precision is never reporting no problem as an attack (no false positives)
3. Because if everything is reported as an attack or nothing is reported as an attack then you either have perfect accuracy or perfect precision, but no actual knowledge
4. That if a system does not have perfect accuracy, then most detected attacks are actually false positives

Lecture 74:
1. It generated a list of random IPs and tried to have them all perform a DoS attack on whitehouse.gov
2. The random generator was seeded so it could be recreated, the worm was very slow as it always recreated the list, and the ip for the website the DoS was aiming for was changed
3. It is stored in temporary memory, so if a machine was rebooted, it was disinfected
4. It used a random generated seed so the worm spread way more quickly

Lecture 75:
1. It contained the string CodeRedII in the code
2. It was more efficient by choosing machines that were on the same network as an infected machine and by avoiding machines that were not computers
3. It installed a mechanism that allowed for remote access and future zombie attacks
4. There are a ton of machines that are vulnerable and so similar worms can keep propagating
5. That people are lousy about patching their machines, and if they weren't most breaches would never happen

Lecture 76:
1. Because security is crucial to commercial and government enterprises
2. A set of requirements defining security functionality, a set of assurance requirements, a methodology for determining that functionality is met, and a measure of the evaluation results
3. Because cryptography is particularly sensitive and there are fewer experts
4. Level 1 is basic and has at least one algorithm, level 2 is improved physical security with tamper-evident packaging, level 3 has strong tamper resistance and countermeasures, and level 4 has complete envelope protection

Lecture 77:
1. A secure systems evaluation criteria to be used by all countries
2. It is common among all the participating countries
3. So that services or products provided in one country wouldn't have to be altered to be certified in other countries
4. A PP is a set of security requirements for a particular class of systems, whereas a security target is a specific set of requirements to be used for the Target of Evaluation

Lecture 78:
1. Keep ID tags secure and make sure billing is unique to individuals
2. To establish the system's security objectives, requirements, assets, and threats
3. To make sure all threats and security objectives are countered and fulfilled

Lecture 79:
1. To manage accesses and privileges in a system, ensuring authorization, integrity, and confidentiality
2. A security target does not have assets like a protection plan because it is one product, not a class of systems with many parts

Lecture 80:
1. They are Evaluation Assurance Levels and they specify how rigorous the assurance testing was
2. The government of the country the evaluation is being performed in
3. Because when it is that sensitive countries would rather certify for themselves to make sure
4. No, because they could lie about their certification as they have a vested interest
5. Because it requires a formal, mathematical method