John Cade Griffin
EID: jcg3335
Homework 4

Lecture 53

1. Why is it important for a digital signature to be non reusable?

so it can be unforgable and authentic, especially non repudiation, signature should be bound to the document

2. Why is it the hash of the message typically signed, rather than the message itself?

public key encryption is expensive to apply and the hash is a fixed finite size

3. What assurance does R gain from the interchange on slide 4?

that S has sent the message, unforgable, authentic, no repudiation, tamperproof, and not reusuable

Lecture 54


1. What is the importance of certiﬁcate authorities?

How do you know that a key is really authentic? A certificate authority validates that these keys are indeed authentic

2. In the example on slide 5, why does X sign the hash of the ﬁrst message with its private key?

because it is cheaper to encrypt a hashed fix value

3. Why is it necessary to have a hash of Y and Ky?

so you can see if its the same as the recieved hash values, which provides a high assurance that these files were not currupted

4. What would happen if Z had a public key for X, but it was not trustworthy?

A trusted individual could vouch for X in the form of a certificate

Lecture 55


1. What happens at the root of a chain of trust?

the root is grounded in some unimpeachable authority


2. Why does an X.509 certiﬁcate include a “validity interval”?
because if you get one of the certificates and the interval is expired, you may not want to trust it

3. What would it mean if the hash and the received value did not match?

if they are not the same it is not a valid certificate 



Lecture 56


1. What are some protocols previously discussed?

RSA, AES

2. What may happen if one step of a protocol is ignored?

The protocol is no longer secure and cannot be authenticated

3. Why must the ciphers commute in order to accomplish the task in slide 4?
So you can reach in the box

4. Describe how an attacker can extract M from the protocol in slide 6.
anevesdropper who stores the three messages can XOR combinations of them to extract any of M, Ka and Kb

5. Describle how an attacker can extract Ka from the protocol in slide 6.
XORing a combonation of M an Ka

6. Describle how an attacker can extract Kb from the protocol in slide 6.
XORing a combonation of M and Kb

7. Why are cryptographic protocols difﬁcult to design and easy to get wrong?
because it is difficult to find a perfect system without security flaws




Lecture 57

1. Explain the importance of protocols in the context of the internet.

important sending emails, and files

2. Explain the importance of cyrptographic protocols in the context of the internet.

important for secuirty in terms of sending banking info, confidential messages, etc

3. What are the assumptions of the protocol in slide 6?

there is a public key system in place and that each agent has a reliable copy of the others public key

4. What are the goals of the protocol in slide 6?

That the message is securly passed

5. Are the goals of the protocol in slide 6 satisﬁed? Explain.

Dr. Young said they are possibly satisfied but will discuss later

6. How is the protocol in slide 6 ﬂawed?

Will discuss in future lecture


Lecture 58

1. Why is it important to know if a protocol includes unnecessary steps or messages?
 could it have left out some of the message exchanges and still accomplished the goal (simplified protocol)

2. Why is it important to know if a protocol encrypts items that could be sent in the clear?
is it redundant to use a protocol to encrypt an item that doesnt need encrypting

Lecture 59

1. Why might it be difficult to answer what constitutes an attack on a cryptographic protocol

sometimes its difficult to identify an attack on a protocol, and there is a target rich environment (understanding what the attacker might do)

2. Describe potential dangers of a replay attack.

could confuse the parties and disrupt message flow

3. Are there attacks where an attacker gains no secret information? Explain.
Yes,  interleaving attacks are attacks where the attacker only disrupts a message


4. What restrictions are imposed on the attacker?
The attack cannot gain info, only dissrupt info assurance

5. Why is it important that protocols are asynchronous? 
protocols are designed in this way for security and essentialy a way to bridge connections




Lecture 60

1. Would the Needham-Schroeder protocol work without nonces?

The final step would be difficult to show that A can actually decrypt the previous message and reencrypt it

2. For each step of the NS protocol, answer the two questions on slide 5.

1) 	a. Hey S wake up, Im A and I want to com to b
	b. That A is sending the message
2)	a. Sends A a new key along with message 
	b. S is sending the message
3)	a. A says I want to communicate with B
	b. Wake up and we are on step 3 of the protocil A is ready to communicate
4)	a.B generates new nonce and sends to A
	b.A now knows b is ready to communicate and that b has the key and can use it
5)	a. A sends back a response (handshake)
	b. A is ready to communicate with B 


Lecture 61
1. As in slide 5, if A’s key were later changed, after having Kas compromised, how could A still be impersonated?
if A's new key were broken and then impersonated
2. Is it fair to ask the question of a key being broken?
yes/no depending on the strength of the encryption
3. How might you address these ﬂaws if you were the protocol designer?
I would require a nonce in the initial exchange between A and B

Lecture 62
1. What guarantees does Otway-Rees seem to provide to A and B?
non repudiation (authentication)
2. Are there guarantees that Needham-Schroeder provides that Otway-Rees does not or vice versa?
At the end of the day, B doesnt know if A has the key
3. How could you ﬁx the ﬂawed protocol from slide 4?
 {{K}kb}ka-1


Lecture 63

1. Why is the veriﬁcation of protocols important?

it is important to be able to character what a "spy can accomplish"

2. What is a belief logic?
belief logics allow reasoning about what principals within the protocol should be able to infer from the messages they see

a formal system for reasoning about beliefs

3. A protocol is a program; where do you think beliefs come in?
the test cases or assertions

Lecture 64
1. What is a modal logic?
Modal logic is a type of formal logic primarily developed in the 1960s that extends classical propositional and predicate logic to include operators expressing modality.

2. Explain the intuition behind the message meaning inference rule.
rules for infering new facts from rules you already have in your database

3. Explain the intuition behind the nonce veriﬁcation inference rule.
If a believes x is fresh and A believes B once said X, then A believes B believes X

4. Explain the intuition behind the jurisdiction inference rule.
If A believes B has jurisdiction over X and A velieves B believes X, then A believes X
If I hear something from an expert, I take his word

5. What is idealization and why is it needed?
A process to get from ptrocol steps to logical inferences
to omit parts of the message that do not contribute to the beliefs of the recipients



Lecture 65

1. Why do you think plaintext is omitted in a BAN idealization?
  since all components are plaintext and its inerred that the plaintext is what the protocol is trying to accomplish

2. Some idealized steps seem to refer to beliefs that will happen later in the protocol. Why would that be?
It seems to assume that these steps will happen linearly in a protocol, for example S believes that A beleives that A and B will share the new key

3. One beneﬁt of a BAN proof is that it exposes assumptions. Explain that.
BAN proofs can expose strong assumptions, leading to possible vulnerbilites in a protocol


