Name: Jacob Harvey
EID: jlh5585
CS Login: jlharv
Email: jacoblharvey@utexas.edu

CS361 Questions: Week 5
Lecture 66
1. What is PGP?
Pretty Good Privacy. A combination of public and symmetric keys

2. What motivated Phil Zimmerman to develop it?
Needed a strong encryption for the average person. Believed the government was listening in on everything

3. Does PGP provide effective security?
Combines public and symmetric key systems, where even if one of the keys is compromised, the encryption wouldn't be compromised.

4. If PGP is freeware, why would anyone bother to purchase sup
port?
Companies like to have accountability and distrust freeware

Lecture 67
1. Explain the PGP authentication protocol.
The sender creates a message and hashes it to prove authenticity.

2. Explain the PGP confidentiality protocol.
The sender signs the message with his private key. The other person has S's public key and can decipher the message. The message is encrypted using a session key, a symmetric key.

3. How do you get both authentication and confidentiality?
By sending the session key to the reciever, which is encrypted with the sender's private key. Th

Lecture 68
1. Besides authentication and confidentiality, what other “services” does PGP
provide?
Integrity, compression, email compatability, segmentation.

2. Why is compression needed?
To save bandwidth.

3. Why sign a message and then compress, rather than the other
way around?
Why waste extra space with the sign. Compressing adds the randomness too.
4. Explain radix-64 conversion and why it’s needed?
To keep the printer or mailer from flaggint the email as possibly malicious. Every thing in the message will be an ascii character

5. Why is PGP segmentation needed?
Emailers have limit on the size of messages being sent


Lecture 69
1. What are the four kinds of keys used by PGP?
Session, public, private, passphrase-based

2. What special properties are needed of session keys?
They are used for symmetric encryption which allows fast decoding

3. How are session keys generated?
They use a previous session key to encrypt some random bits gained from key-strokes, timing, and mouse movement,

4. Assuming RSA is used for PGP asymmetric encryption, how are the keys generated?
Generate a large number and test it for being a prime. You’ll eventually get a prime. Rare event

5. How are the private keys protected? Why is this necessary?
Via a user-supplies passphrase. System could be compromised, and thus the necessity for the extra security

CS361 Questions: Week 5
Lecture 70
1. If a user has multiple private/public key pairs, how does he know which was used when he receives an encrypted message?
The sender sends the last 64 bits of the key to use an ID

2. What’s on a user’s private key ring?
For each key in the table: a timestamp, key ID, public key, private key, user id

3. What’s on a user’s public key ring?
Timestamp, key id, public key, user id

4. What are the steps in retrieving a private key from the key r
ing?
Using the id sent in the message to locate the key in the private key rin, and using the passphrase to unlock it


5. What is the key legitimacy field for?
Much like certificates, it’s used to verify a key. Doesn’t stop someone from using the key, but warns about not having a chain of trust for the key

6. How is a key revoked?
The owner sends a signed key revocation certificate


Lecture 71
1. Explain the difference between the consumer and producer
problems. Which is more prevalent?
The consumer problem is basically a man in the middle attack via confusing the client into tricking authenticity.  The producer problem is to attack the server via usually a DDoS attack. The producer problem is more prevelent. 

2. Explain syn flooding.
The attacker forges illegitimate return addresses, overloading the server. The server creates too many half-open connections.

3. Why are the first three solutions to syn flooding not ideal?
Increasing the size of the table still places a physical limit on the solution
A shorter time-out will ignore the slower clients
It’s also hard to determine if a packet is legitimate.
Changing the algorithm is more efficient  

Lecture 72
1. Why does packet filtering work very well to prevent attacks?
It can but it’s very expensive to do deeply. It’s also not very efficient or effective. Bad question

2. What are the differences between intrusion detection and intrusion prevention systems?
Intrusion prevention stops attacks from taking place, while detection tries to find what attacks have taken place

3. Explain the four different solutions mentioned to DDoS attacks.
Over-provisioning the network-- Have a ton of servers, so it’s hard to take down. Very expensive, not effective against botnets
Filtering attack packets- Hard to tell if packet is malicious or not
Slow down processing-- disadvantages everyone; legitimate and not. 
Speak-up- Request every sender to send more packets. Botnets are usually maxed out, legitimate consumers can usually send more. 

Lecture 73
1. Explain false positive and false negatives. Which is worse?
False negatives are attacks that are misdiagnosed. Depends on scenario. I would argue false negatives. Better to be safe than sorry

2. Explain what “accurate” and “precise” mean in the IDS cont
Accurate means it detects all genuine attacks, while precise means it doesn’t report legitimate behavior. 

3. Explain the statement: “It’s easy to build an IDS that is either accurate or precise?
Being accurate and precise are two extremes, where accurate could lean towards being overly sensitive and precise being too lax. Want right middle ground which is very hard

4. What is the base rate fallacy? Why is it relevant to an IDS?
Only a small percentage of incoming traffic is malicious. If the detection accuracy is 90%, then 92% of the warning of malicious attacks are false. 

Lecture 74
CS361 Questions: Week 
1. What did Code Red version 1 attempt to do?
Infect more computers between 1-19th, and then launch a large DDoS attack on whitehouse.gov

2. Why was Code Red version 1 ineffective?
The pseudorandom generator for the IP addresses used a static seed, so every machine used the same IP addresses. Just changed the ip address for the whitehouse.gov

3. What does it mean to say that a worm is “memory resident”? What are the iimplications.
It resided in RAM, so can go away after machine rebooted

4. Why was Code Red version 2 much more effective than version 1
Randomly generated seed, so more machines were affected. Also affected more than just pc’s

Lecture 75
1. How was Code Red II related to Code Red (versions 1 and 2)?
Used the string “Code Red” in the code
Installed backdoor on infected machine.
Had elaborate propogation attempt
2. Why do you suppose Code Red II incorporated its elaborate propogation scheme?
Machines on the same subnet may be running the same software, and thus a higher chance of having a vulnerability
Only attacked computers

3. What did Code Red II attempt to do?
Install a backdoor and affect more machines

4. Comment on the implications of a large population of unpatched machines.
People are stupid. Don’t focus on patching machines/ fixing known security flaws 

5. Comment on the report from Verizon cited on slide 6. What are the lessons of their study?
People suck at updating their machines and don’t care about security threats/ have no idea their machines could be/ are infected

Lecture 76
1. Why is a certification regime for secure products necessary and useful?
To know how secure a product truly is. Don’t want to be scammed.

2. Explain the components of an evaluation standard.
A set of requirements defining security functionality.
A set of assurance requirements needed for establishing the functional requirements.
A methodology for determining that the functional requirements are met.
A measure of the evaluation result indicating the trustworthiness of the evaluated system

3. Why would crypto devices have a separate evaluation mechanism?
Have a harsher grading scheme, federal agencies are required to use products that have been approved by the nsa. 

4. Explain the four levels of certification for crypto devices.
Level one is for the average consumer, where brute force attacks are rare, and complex algorithms aren’t  necessarily needed. Level 4 is for the strongest encryption, used for the government 
Lecture 77
1. What is the Common Criteria?
A methodology and a set of documents that will help evaluate security objects. A world-wide criteria, with each country having slight tweaks. 

2. What’s “common” about it?
USA, UK, France, and Germany adopted it, and then ISO did

3. Why would there be any need for “National Schemes”?
Each country has different security policies, and different spying potentials (NSA)

4. Explain the difference between a protection profile and a security target.
Protection profile describes a security policy for a particular class of systems. 
A security Targest are the policy actually implements

Lecture 78
CS361 Questions: Week 5
1. Explain the overall goal of the protection profile as exemplified by the WBI example.
Want to detect invalid ID tags and bin-cleared messages. Want to continue working even if a fault is detected

2. What is the purpose of the various parts of the protection profile (as exemplified in the WBIS example)?
To tell the people who are going to implement the system ways in how to fulfill the security policies the profile is trying to cover. 

3. What is the purpose of the matrix on slide 7?
To think through every threat and their corresponding mechanism designed to counter them. Don’t want a row without a check

Lecture 79
1. Explain the overall goal of the security target evaluation as exemplified by the Sun Identity Manager example.
To list every threat and what objectives are taken to counter them

2. How do you think that a security target evaluation differs from a protection profile evaluation?
Analyzes a specific program, in which the program specifies what objectives counter which threats. Protection profile gives a broad range of objectives that could be taken

Lecture 80

1. What are the EALs and what are they used for?
Evaluations under the common criteria, and they’re used to classify how secure a product is

2. Who performs the Common Criteria evaluations?
The government: NIST, NVLAP

3. Speculate why the higher EALs are not necessarily mutually recognized by various countries.
Different security policies and don’t trust other countries to rigorously test a product

4. Can vendors certify their own products? Why or why not?
No, need 3rd party to certify for trust reasons. Usually by the government, also by labs

5. If you’re performing a formal evaluation, why is it probably bad to reverse engineer the model from
Shouldn’t be able to reverse engineer the model from the code for EAL5/6/7

