Name: Maximilian Brown
EID: BROWNMT6
CS Login: BROWNMT6	
Email:	maximilian.brown@gmail.com

Questions: Week 1

Lecture 1
1.	In my everyday life, the term security brings to mind the security system on my house or my personal financial security.
2.	Security of my home and finances are crucial to my ability to live day to day with peace of mind. I can feel a little safer having those things. 
3.	Yes, my credit card information was compromised when Target databases were hacked.
4.	No, I very recently formatted my computer and converted it to a Linux machine. It is so new that I feel there hasn't been ample time to compromise my system yet.
5.	I feel that linux machines are not very succeptible to viruses so I do not use any virus software.
6.	So far I haven't had any problems however I feel it would be beneficial to incorporate more security measures.
7.	I feel the statement is overstated. I don't doubt the ability of our "cyber-adversaries", but I don't feel that anyone is currently challenging our country's existence. His statement implies the there are adversaries that could destroy the U.S. but chose not to. Since I beleive that there are people that would like to destroy our country and it has not happened, I beleive they are not capable.
8.	With the increased reliance on computing in our society, the number of possible computer security vulnerabilities increases as well. Learning about computer security is important because it is a growing field and will help me to protect my own computing systems.

Lecture 2
1.	Attacking computers or hacking has become a hobby for some people. Some vulnerabilities are out of our control.
2.	No, you can't systematically list all "bad things" that could hapen to a computer because the "bad things" are always changing. 
3.	The assymetry between the attacker and defender in security is that the defender has to protect against all possible vulnerabilities where the attacker only needs to find one that is not protected against.
4.	This may be exagerated a bit but I agree with the quotes. As soon as you begin using a computer you become susceptible to attacks. The only way to have zero possibility of attack is to not have the computer in the first place.
5.	The goal for computers becomes to find a happy medium where you can use the computer to perform useful tasks and you limit the vulnerabilities to outside attacks. 

Lecture 3
1.	risk- the threat of losing something
2.	Yes, because the different vulnerabilities would be the different risks and the task is to determine what to do about each risk. Different risk decisions are made for each identified risk.
3.	Risk I accept - I accept the risk of riding my bike without a helmet
	Risk I avoid - I avoid skydiving
	Risk I mitigate - I mitigate the risk of losing my cell phone by having an old phone
	Risk I transfer - I transfer the risk of a break in by having a home security system
4.	Anualized Loss Expectancy doesn't give a true comparisson of risk factors. ALE alone is insufficient for determining where risk lies.
5.	psychological, economic, society

Lecture 4
1.	The items on list two are goals and the items on list three are the mechanisms used to accoumplish the goals
2.	For me all three are very important. If I had to choose one though I would say confidentiality. I conduct a lot of online transactions and would hate to have billing information compromised.
3.	"to group and catagorize data" means to separate data into different sets based on who needs to, or can access the data.
4.	At a job someone could have an increase in authorization after a promotion or obtaining a qualification.
5.	Making a system unreliable could be a means to making it unavailable. 
6.	Authentication and Non-repudiation could be important in the case of an online vendor. You would like to know that the user is who they say they are and will not be able to deny making a purchase after the fact.

Lecture 5
1.	cell phone network - want paying users to have access to network bandwith, but not non-paying individuals
	military database - Only authorized individuals have ability to see or change any data in database. Needs to be available at all times.
2.	The metapolicy is the overall goal and the policies are the rules that accomplish the overall goal
3.	students can only access their academic records with UTEID authentication or in person with a student id, Official documents will not have student SSN viewable, and only certain employees of the university are authorized to alter student grades
4.	Yes, while a policy could be in place to protect information, it could make information less accessible to the person who needs it.
5.	metapolicy- confidentiality of students personal information, specifically SSNs
6.	Since the overall goal is the metapolicy, the individual poilicies that try to accomplish the overall goal may not make sense without the context of the metapolicy. 

Lecture 6
1.	Military security is mainly about confidentiality becase they deal with a lot of sensitive materials, like secret weapons, war plans, ect. I feel that other aspects would be equally important. It is important that the sensative materials are correct(integrity) and available when they need them. 
2.	The major threat is that sensitive data such as a warplan could get into the hands of an enemy
3.	The system we are modeling is only taking into consideration confidentiality. The thought experiment is for a BLP principles.
4.	The labels have a hierarchical security level and a set of categories that the data belongs to.
5.	We are assuming that the labels were assinged appropriately by the right person for the purposes of the thought experiment. Since we are only worried about confidentiality or flow of information we don't care about the actual information.
6.	-cafeteria serving chopped beef
	-base softball game
	-Col. Smith didn't get a raise
	-Col. Jones got a raise
	-British have broken the German Enigma codes
	-Normandy invasion
7.	Unclassified: {}
	Unclassified: {}
	Classified: {payroll}
	Classified: {payroll}
	Top Secret: {Crypto, Reconisance}
	Top Secret: {Ops}
8.	Someone could have access to top secret Crypto information but should not be reading the details of a war plan. So if a document contained both Top Secret crypto information and war plan information, they shouldn't have access becasue there is no way to only read the crypto information. If they need access to that particular document they need their clearance adjusted.

Lecture 7
1.	Labels are affixed to humans through computers. Either password access or access cards which grant access to certain areas that materials are located
2.	Labels for documents are physically labels where labels for humans are an indication of what documents someone has access to.
3.	In the context of computers the documents are files and the humans are the users.
4.	The principle of least privilege makes sense because it alows restriction of access to data to smaller groups. It makes it easier to manage the possible vulnerablities in a system. If everyone had equal access to a all parts of a system, it would be hard to determine where breaches occur.
5.	-makes sense because they should have access to everything cryto that is level secret and below
	-makes sense because the person doesn't have access to top secret materials period, you don't even have to look at categories
	-makes sense because unclassified is a lower level than secret and {} is a subset of {Nuclear}

Lecture 8
1.	To generalize the concepts of security and make the implementations intuitive
2.	dominates is a partial order it satisfies reflexive, transitive and antisymmetric properties
	Given security levels H M L
	reflexive - H = H M = M L = L
	transitive - H > M > L -> H > L
	antisymmetric - H >= M  !M >= H 
3.	The dominates relationship does not have totality
4.	They would have to be the same
5.	Simple Security Property - Subjects can only read objects which are of a lower classification
6.	There could be additional requirements for authority to read. 

Lecture 9
1.	Simple Security only ensures that information is not leaked through reads
2.	Constraints on writes are necessary because of the possiblity that someone were to write down, making secure items available in lower areas
3.	Humans can be relied on to write to appropriate locations but subjects in computers are the programs being run and could have malicious logic embeded in it. If it is able to write down, the program could leak information inadvertantly
4.	The *-Property - Subjects can only write to objects which are of a higher classification
5.	The subject must have the same clearance
6.	After writing the orders, their orders could be lowered from top secret to unclassified
7.	Yes, you would have to have some sort of indication of the source or integrity of the data

Lecture 10
1.	If a subjects level was downgraded, you would be concerned with violating the *-property. The subject should be careful not to write anything that is above its new level. If a subjects level was upgraded, you would be concerned with violating the simple security property. The subject should be careful not to read anything that is above its original level.
2.	Using strong tranquility all the time wouldn't allow for any flexibility. Things are always changing so a system needs some flexibility.
3.	Lowering the level of an object is dangerous because it allows lower level subjects access to sensitive materials.
4.	In order to downgrade and objects level the information contained in the object should no longer be pertinent. A war plan could be downgraded after it had been executed. 

Lecture 11
1.	Subjects would have a high level and objects would have a low level. This would prevent writing to objects.
2.	The matrix would be so large. It is better to compute the rules on the fly.

Lecture 12
1.				H{A}
				/	\
			   /	 \ 
			L{A}	 H{}
			   \ 	 /
			    \ 	/
			     L{}

2.	LUB - Take the highest sec level of the two labels and the superset of the two lables
	GLB - Take the lowest sec level of the two labels and the common subset of the two labels
3.	The metapolicy for a BLP system is that information only be allowed to flow upwards just like the lattice only flows up

Lecture 13
1.	The BLP rules do not allow information to flow from H to L, because you cannot write down or read up. 
2.	Read - satisfies BLP b/c subjects can only read objects which have an equal or lower security label
	Write - satisfies BLP b/c subjects can only writ to objects which an equal or higher security label
3.	Create - satisfies BLP b/c creating is like writing at your own level
	Destroy - satisfies BLP b/c it is like overwriting at a higher level
4.	The high level subject and low level subject have to be working together
5.	The destroy statement is there so that the process can start fresh each time. This covert channel only works by the object not existing to begin with.
6.	NO
7.	SL has to do the same thing each time so that it can notice changes in SH's behavior. If it altered it behavior it wouldn't know if the different outcomes were due to something SL did or SH did. SL is the constant and SH's behavior is the variable.
8.	SH has to do different things so that SL can detect changes in state. The diferences in SH's behavior signal the the different bits. 
9.	If SL can detect any information at all from actions of SH there is a flow of information from high to low which is violating the metapolicy.

Lecture 14
1.	In order for there to be a covert channel the flow of information can not be a blatant violation of policy. It should be facilitated by using a resource that wasn't intended as a communication channel.
2.	No, this isn't a covert channel it is just using commands that were designed to be communication channels
3.	The type of error message recieved
4.	The length processor time used 
5.	The location on disk that was last read from
6.	The value of l
7.	A termination channel could have a low bandwith because one of the bits is detected quickly but the other takes a long time.
8.	You would have to have a system which had apparent fluctuation in power consumption based on processing of data.
9.	Maybe a card reader that was processing a key and took longer to process the 1s than 0s.

Lecture 15
1.	Covert channels can transmit thousands of bits per second and are difficult to detect since they have little impact on system processing.
2.	Systems are usually complex and it is hard to detect all of the possible ways that system data could be used to transmit information. It is a similar problem as is faced with overall security. To defend agains covert channels you have to find all vulnerabilities while a adversary only needs to find one.
3.	There are three possible responses, eliminate it by modifying the system implementation, reduce bandwith by introducing noise into the system, or monitor it for patterns to detect exploitations and find the intrusion.
4.	A system where a low security object can determine if a high security object has been created or not based on the type of error message recieved when trying to access the object. If a high subject creates a high object and the low subject tried to read it it would get a access denied error message if the high subject didn't create the object the low subject would receive an object not found error message.
5.	This covert storage channel could be utilized by sending a bit at a time by either creating or not creating a object that would subsequently be read by the low subject.

Lecture 16
1.	After creating an object you would know that the object existed but you wouldn't know what the state was prior. The create operation isn't telling me anything about the attribute.
2.	If there is an R and M in the same row of an SRMM there could be a potential channel since a sender could modify an attribute and a receiver could Reference the same attribute. Information could flow through the attriubte.
3.	No, because you aren't modifying and referenceing the same attribute so you can not relay information.
4.	The SRMM table tells you where there are potentials for covert channels, not that they necessarily exist. It would be a way to preemptively protect against covert channel exploitation.