Name: Kevin Byers EID: kb25543 CS Login: kevinb Email: kevin.byers.tennis@gmail.com
									CS361 Questions: Week 1
These questions relate to Module(s) 1. Type your answers and
submit them via
email to the TA by 5pm on Thursday, June 12.
Lecture 1
1. What uses of the term “security” are relevant to your every
day life?
Personal security, Communications security, and Network Security
2. What do these have in common?
They all try to protect assets against threats.
3. Have you been a victim of lax security?
Yes, the data hack on target affected my family and me.
4. What is the likelihood that your laptop is infected? How di
d you decide?
It is very likely that my laptop is infected given the median length of an infection is 300 days and programs that are running on my laptop my lead to infections without my knowledge or consent.
5. What security measures do you employ on your laptop?
My laptop is password protected.  I also use the built-in virus protection from my computer and refrain from visiting websites I do not trust or clicking on advertisements or pop-ups.
6. Do you think they are probably effective?
Since I use a Macbook Pro, most viruses do not affect me, since they usually target the bigger PC market.  The password protection is effective against most people who would steal it, or use it without my permission.
7. Consider the quote from the FBI official on slide 10. Do you t
hink it over-
states the case? Justify your answer.
I do not think it over-states the case, because most secrets (both personal and national) that could harm this country and its leading officials can be found on a computer.  So, with the ability to access any computer system, someone can do a lot of damage to whichever countries they are targeting.
8. What is the importance in learning about computer securit
y?
Learning about computer security can enhance your own protection, contribute to security in the workplace, and enhance the quality and safety of interpersonal and business transactions.

Lecture 2
1. Consider the five reasons given why security is hard. Can yo
u think of other
factors?
Most security systems are built for multiple users, so your system’s security is also limited by the competence of every person using that system.
2. Is there a systematic way to enumerate the “bad things” tha
t might happen to a program? Why or why not?
Different programs have different vulnerabilities and with advances in technology, the ability to exploit new vulnerabilities is possible.  So there are usually not a fixed number of bad things that might happen to a given program.
3. Explain the asymmetry between the defender and attacker i
n security.
An attacker only has to find one flaw and exploit it, whereas the defender has to find every possible security flaw and fix it.
4. Examine the quotes from Morris and Chang. Do you agree? Why
or why not?
I do agree, because there is always a tradeoff between security and usability.  So to get complete security, you must get rid of usability.
5. Explain the statement on slide 8 that a tradeoff is typical
ly required.
Things like requiring a password greatly affect security, but reduce efficiency and simplicity.  Making something that has already been built for a specific purpose secure, will almost always mean making it more complicated and less functional.

Lecture 3
1. Define “risk”?
Risk is the possibility that a particular threat will adversely impact an information system by exploiting a particular vulnerability.
2. Do you agree that software security is about managing risk?
Yes, software security is about protecting information systems, which means identifying and assessing risks in order to protect against them.
3. Name and explain a risk you accept, one you avoid, one you mi
tigate, and one you transfer?
I accept the risk of skin cancer working as a tennis coach outdoors.  I avoid leaving my car door unlocked, so my possessions do not get stolen.  I mitigate the risk of skin cancer by using sunscreen.  I transfer the risk of incurring debt from accidents by paying for insurance.
4. Evaluate annualized loss expectancy as a risk management
tool.
It is a useful tool to assess possible loss, but since the world is not perfect, I would also protect against possible losses that could put me out of business even if the ALE of that loss type was lower than a more tolerable loss.
5. List some factors relevant to rational risk assessment.
On top of all of the factors relevant to ALE, you should look at the affect a particular loss would have even if it is extremely unlikely and the cost/ability to manage the risk in question.

Lecture 4
1. Explain the key distinction between the lists on slides 2 and 3.
Slide 2 shows the metapolicies/sub-categories of security, and slide 3 shows specific methods used to protect one or more of the sub-categories shown on slide 2.
2. Consider your use of computing in your personal life. Which is most important: confidentiality, integrity, availability? Justify your answer.
It depends, but on a daily basis, in order from most to least important I would say: Availability, integrity, and then confidentiality.  I want my computer to work when I need it to do specific tasks, I don't want it to display inaccurate information, and then I don't want it to share my information with everybody else (when it comes to credit card info/social security number etc, confidentiality bumps to the front of the line).
3. What does it mean “to group and categorize data”?
It is the method for seperating data that by its difference in sensitivity.
4. Why might authorizations change over time?
People get promoted, demoted, or even fired.  Also, if a new project requires access to new information, someone may need a temporary change in authorization.
5. Some of the availability questions seem to relate more to reliability than to
security. How are the two related?
DoS attacks can limit reliability if someone hacks a network and denies or takes over your ability to be a part of that network.  In this case a non-secure network would have a lower reliability than one that prevents DoS attacks.
6. In what contexts would authentication and non-repudiation be considered important?
When using a bank or any retailer online, you would want them to know you are who you say you are and have proof that the transaction being made will be recorded correctly.

Lecture 5
1. Describe a possible metapolicy for a cell phone network? A
military database?
A metapolicy for a cell phone network would be availability to ensure customers can make a call when they want to, but military database would place more importance on integrity and confidentiality so that sensitive information is not manipulated or read by someone who does not have the authority to read it.
2. Why do you need a policy if you have a metapolicy?
A policy is a set of rules that allow the metapolicy to be achieved.
3. Give three possible rules within a policy concerning students’ academic records.
Require a username and password to access information, only allow supervisors to change grades, keep track of any grade changes made and notify supervisors of who changed the grade and when.
4. Could stakeholders’ interest conflict in a policy? Give an example.
Yes, a student could want to change his grade, but the policies in place would not allow him to in order to protect the integrity of the grading system for the university.
5. For the example given involving student SSNs, state the likely metapolicy.
Confidentiality
6. Explain the statement: ”If you don’t understand the metapolicy, it becomes
difficult to justify and evaluate the policy.”
You cannot justify the rules if you do not understand the reason for having rules in the first place.

Lecture 6
1. Why is military security mainly about confidentiality? Are there also aspects of integrity and availability?
If important information (like nuclear codes/locations) gets in the wrong hands, a lot of people would be in danger.  Integrity and availability are also important, because you only want certain people to be able to manipulate data and the military needs to be able to access information in a timely manner. 
2. Describe the major threat in our MLS thought experiment.
People accessing certain information who do not have proper authorization.
3. Why do you think the proviso is there?
If a subject has the same level of confidentiality as a document, then it should be available for the subject to read.
4. Explain the form of the labels we’re using.
There is a hierarchical component and a set of categories.  So that a subject with top secret access to cryptography does not have top secret access to nuclear info unless he needs it and gets approved for that status also.
5. Why do you suppose we’re not concerned with how the labels get there?
There should be a seperate system that handles that to avoid complication and help assure us that this system is secure.
6. Rank the facts listed on slide 6 by sensitivity.
The base softball team has a game tomorrow at 3pm, the cafeteria is serving chopped beef on toast today, Col. Jones just got a raise, Col. Smith didn't get a raise, the British have broken the German Enigma codes, and the Normandy invasion is scheduled for June 6.
7. Invent labels for documents containing each of those facts.
{Unclassified, Recreational}, {Confidential, Finances}, {Secret, International}, {Top Secret, MilitaryPlans}
8. Justify the rules for “mixed” documents.
If you need to access that information, someone needs to give you permission, so you don't read top secret information, just because you read all of the mixed documents in your categories.  Also, so you don't read nuclear information when you are in cryptography, just because you have the proper security level.

Lecture 7
1. Document labels are stamped on the outside. How are “labels” affixed to humans?
Humans get clearances or authorization levels assigned to them.
2. Explain the difference in semantics of labels for documents and labels for humans.
Labels for documents indicate the sensitivity of the information contained, but labels for humans represent the degree of trustworthiness to which a human has been vetted.
3. In the context of computers what do you think are the analogues of documents? Of humans?
Analogues of documents are files that can be read or manipulated, humans can be any source that is trying to read or write to those files.
4. Explain why the Principle of Least Privilege makes sense.
It is a way of protecting information given the theory that peopl cannot leak what they do not know.
5. For each of the pairs of labels on slide 6, explain why the an
swers in the third column do or do not make sense.
Secret is higher than confidential and the categories are the same, secret is lower than top secret, and secret is higher than unclassified and {Nuclear} is a superset of {}.

Lecture 8:
1. Why do you think we introduced the vocabulary terms: objects, subjects, actions?
To categorize the principles and simplify the security problems/solutions.
2. Prove that dominates is a partial order (reflexive, transitive, antisymmetric).
(L1, S1) dominates (L1, S1). If (L1, S1) dominates (L2, S2) and (L2, S2) dominates (L3, S3), then (L1, S1) dominates (L3, S3).  If (L1, S1) dominates (L2, S2), and (L2, S2) dominates (L1, S1), then (L1, S1) = (L2, S2).
3. Show that dominates is not a total order.
There are security labels A and B such that neither A >= B nor B >= A.  For example, {Secret, Nuclear} and {Secret, Crypto}.
4. What would have to be true for two labels to dominate each other?
They would have to be equal.
5. State informally what the the Simple Security property says.
Someone can read a document if they have authorizatin for that documents category and a security level greater than or equal to the security level of the document.
6. Explain why it’s “only if” and not “if and only if.”
If you were not granted read access it does not necessarily mean you did not have a clearance level greater than the object.

Lecture 9
1. Why isn’t Simple Security enough to ensure confidentiality?
If someone writes something into a lower security level folder, then Top Secret information can be read by people without Top Secret Clearance.
2. Why do we need constraints on write access?
So information does not end up on a lower security level than it should be.
3. What is it about computers, as opposed to human beings, that makes that particularly important?
If I am running a program and I have top secret clearance, that program would be able to do whatever it wants with top secret data.
4. State informally what the *-Property says.
A person can write in a document if it is at their security level or above and if they have access to that document's category.
5. What must be true for a subject to have both read and write access to an object?
The label for the subject and object must be equal.
6. How could we deal with the problem that the General (top secret) can’t send orders to the private (Unclassified)?
We could have commands with matching security levels that are allowed to be sent.  So the General can send unclassified commands to the private.
7. Isn’t it a problem that a corporal can overwrite the war plan? Suggest how we might deal with that.
It is an integrity problem, not a confidentiality problem.  We could only allow subjects to write at their own security level.

Lecture 10:
1. Evaluate changing a subject’s level (up or down) in light of weak tranquility.
Subjects and objects can not change labels in a way that violates the "spirit" of the security policy.
2. Why not just use strong tranquility all the time?
People get promoted and demoted and information that is no longer top secret can be used to educate people who are not authorized to read top secret material.
3. Explain why lowering the level of an object may be dangerous.
Someone can read a document that they are not supposed to if an object's level is lowered by accident or maliciously.
4. Explain what conditions must hold for a downgrade (lowering object level) to be secure.
It must be approved by someone with the authority to approve the downgrading.  For example, the president of the United States should be able to declassify documents if they are no longer important to national security.

Lecture 11:
1. Suppose you wanted to build a (library) system in which all subjects had read access to all files, but write access to none of them. What levels could you give to subjects and objects?
You could give subjects a high security level and objects a low security level.
2. Why wouldn’t you usually build an access control matrix for a BLP system?
It would not be efficient, because the matrix would be huge for most realistic systems and it is relatively easy to check who dominates for a given relationship without looking it up.

Lecture 12
1. Suppose you had hierarchical levels L, H with L < H, but only had one category A. Draw the lattice. (Use your keyboard and editor to draw it; it doesn’t have to be fancy.)
H{}->H{A}
 ^   ^  ^
 |  /   |
 | /    |
L{}->L{A}

2. Given any two labels in a BLP system, what is the algorithm for finding their LUB and GLB?
Least upper bound is found by looking for all of the labels that dominate both of them and choosing a label that dominates the fewest other labels.  The greatest lower bound is found by getting all of the labels that both labels dominate and choosing the one that dominates the most labels.
3. Explain why upward flow in the lattice really is the metapolicy for BLP.
Information flowing up and the chain of labels and not down provides the confidentiality restraints of BLP.

Lecture 13
1. Explain how the BLP rules are supposed to enforce the metapolicy in the example on slide 1.
The simple lattice of labels shows that information flow is permitted from L to H, but not vice versa.
2. Argue that the READ and WRITE operations given satisfy BLP.
A subject can only write at their level or higher and only read at their level or lower, which does not directly allow for information to flow downwards.
3. Argue that the CREATE and DESTROY operations given satisfy BLP.
Create allows the subject to create at its own level and destroy objects at its own level or higher, causing no direct flow of information downward.
4. What has to be true for the covert channel on slide 5 to work?
Create has to check all levels for the object with the specific name.
5. Why is the DESTROY statement there?
So that this can be put in a loop and names would not have to be changed, which would allow for data to be passed more quickly.
6. Are the contents of any files different in the two paths?
Yes, in the first path, SL is not permitted to write the 1 to the file.
7. Why does SL do the same thing in both cases? Must it?
Yes it must, because it has no way of knowing what information it is going to receive.
8. Why does SH do different things? Must it?
SH does different things to send different bit values (1 and 0) and yes, it must.
9. Justify the statement on slide 7 that begins: “If SL ever sees...”
They can always have a code, where one variation is 0 and another is 1, thereby communicating information downward.

Lecture 14
1. Explain why “two human users talking over coffee is not a covert channel.”
In order for it to be a covert channel, it must happen in the system, two users talking over coffee is not a part of the system.
2. Is the following a covert channel? Why or why not?
Send 0 | Send 1
------------------------------------------
Write (SH, F0, 0) | Write (SH, F0, 1)
Read (SL, F0) | Read (SL, F0)
No, because SL will no be able to read information that they do not have access to, receiving no flow of data.
3. Where does the bit of information transmitted “reside” in Covert Channel#1?
The bit of information resides within the system state.
4. In Covert Channel #2?
In the ordering or duration of events on the system.
5. In Covert Channel #3?
It depends on p's most recent read.
6. In Covert Channel #4?
The result of l depends on the value of h, so it depends on if a statement was executed.
7. Why might a termination channel have low bandwidth?
You would have to wait a longer period of time to see if the computation terminated.
8. What would have to be true to implement a power channel?
The energy consumed must be able to be manipulated and measured systematically.
9. For what sort of devices might power channels arise?
A device in which the person monitoring does not want to be found out.

Lecture 15
1. Explain why covert channels, while appearing to have such a low band-width, can potentially be very serious threats.
They can operate at thousands of bits per second, with no significant impact on the system processing.
2. Why would it be infeasible to eliminate every potential covert channel?
There are far too many possible covert channels to get rid of all of them.
3. If detected, how could one respond appropriately to a covert channel?
You can eliminate it, reduce the bandwith, or monitor it for patterns of usage that indicate its exploitation.
4. Describe a scenario in which a covert storage channel exists.
If a sender and receiver share access to an attribute of an object, the sender can modify the attribute, and a method to sequence the access to the shared resource exists, then a storage channel can exist.
5. Describe how this covert storage channel can be utilized by the sender and receiver.
The receiver can constantly monitor for changes in the attribute and the sender can make changes at any given time.

Lecture 16
1. Why wouldn’t the “create” operation have an R in the SRMM for the “fileexistence” attribute?
Create does not provide information about the existence of a file.
2. Why does an R and M in the same row of an SRMM table indicate a potential channel?
It indicates the ability to modify an attribute and to access information about the attribute.
3. If an R and M are in the same column of an SRMM table, does this also indicate a potential covert channel? Why or why not?
No, because the attribute being modified is different from the one being referenced.
4. Why would anyone want to go through the trouble to create an SRMM table?
To know where to start looking for potential covert channels.

