Jesse Jones
CS id: jones512
email: jessear5890@yahoo.com
Summer 2014


Lecture 1:

1. Software and Hardware Computer security, Homeland Security. Security on a personal level and institutional level,

2. Both represent important assets that are valuable and in need of some type of protection to combat threats to them. 

3. Yes i have been a victim of lax security. 

4. Not likely laptop is infected. I assume this because most of the malware, adware, and virus threats are geared at attacking pcs.

5. I have a login password to access the home screen and password is required any time software is update or new software is installed. 

6. I believe they are effective in deterring less experienced users from posing viable threat of the integrity of the computer. 

7. I think it slightly overstates the case because even though the capabilities for such an attack exist. It would take a lot of experience and organization in multiple fields other than just hacking to pose a real threat to national securtiy. 

8. It is important to learn about computer security to protect yourself and others from the dangers of careless computer usage and data transfer. 

Lecture 2:

1. The pace at which new technology is discovered always comes with a new set of vulnerabilities that can be exploited. 

2. No there is not a systematic way to enumerate the "bad things" because no matter how many brillian programmers get to together to come up with all the bad things. There will at least be 1 more that they failed to realize given the complexity of computer systems. 
 
3. A defender has to think about all the possible vulnerabilities that can be exploited and develop a mechanism to prevent it. An attacker only has to find one of the vulnerabilities that is not properly secured or think of a new vulnerability that the programmer failed to realize and exploit it. 

4. I agree because it is impossible to have a computer that is incapable of being exploited due to the number of possible attacks that can be used on any one computer. 

5. Since every possible attack can not be secured against or would require a security mechanism that cripples the systems functionality, a tradeoff has to be made between security and functionaliy. And/or a tradeoff has to occur between the type of threats you want to protect against and the type you are leaving open exploitation. 

Lecture 3:

1. Risk is the possibility that a particular threat will advesely impact an information system by exploiting a partiular vulnerability. 

2. Yes i agree software security is about managing risk because having security protocols can reduce the number of successful attacks on software. 

3. I accept the risk of no encryption on the my mobile device. I avoid the risk of being thrown out of a vehicle by wearing seatbelt each time I drive. I run antivirus software on my computer to mitigate the risk of getting a virus or spyware. I have insurance of my vehicle that transfers risk of paying full repair price for a collision. 

4. Annualized loss expectancy as a risk management tool can be effective in specific scenarios. However failing to effectively secure an extremely valuable asset due to the expected probability of that incident occuring can be dangerous. 

5. technical, economic, psychological
