1. What uses of the term security are relevant to your everyday life?
    As a computer scientist, every term is equally important. However, as typical laptop owner, I am more worried over personnel security since I store many private information in my machine. Network security as well since I share data over networks all the time. For example when sending emails.

2. What do these have in common?
    They are all crucial for functionality. If any of them where to be compromised, the system would not work as intended.
    
3. Have you been a victim of lax security
	Surprisingly, not that I am aware off.
    
4. What is the likelihood that your laptop is infected? How did you decide?
    I would say there is an 80% chance that my laptop is compromised.This is because I pay little attention to the things I download or the certificates the websites I visit have. I don't use any sort of firewall and I share my wifi password with everyone.

5. What security measures do you employ on your laptop
    Besides passwords, I don't employ any type of security.

6. Do you think they are probably effective?
    Yes. Even though my password is "1234", it prevents most unwanted people from accessing it. If someone really wanted to get into my laptop, they would probably be able to crack my password using tools like rainbow tables.

7. Consider the quote from the FBI official on slide 10. Do you think it overstates the case? Justify your answer
    I think he might be right to some extent. Given all the tools attackers have at their arsenal, it is very likely that they could penetrate the most secure defenses. Never the less, the magnitude of this penetration is probably very small otherwise the vulnerabilities would have been spotted.

8. What is the importance in learning about computer security
    Every day more systems are becoming digital. In the near future virtually everything will be dependent on some sort of digital system. With this in mind, securing this digital systems is more crucial than ever.