1. Why is military security mainly about confidentiality? Are there also aspects of integrity and availability?
	Because in the military, the human factor is crucial. In this context the mayor concern is making sure trusted people have access to sensitive data. This is because humans are the ones making the decision, therefore making sure they have access to the right information is crucial Furthermore, human leakage is a major concern, therefore an unauthorized access to certain data could be catastrophic. 

2. Describe the major threat in our MLS thought experiment.
	Someone with no clearance such as a janitor accesses sensitive information such as the war plans, and sells it to the Russians. 

3. Why do you think the proviso is there?
	Because some of the rules explained guarantee confidentiality but do not guarantee integrity or accessibility. For example, when it comes to writing permission, someone with confidential permission, could overwrite top secret information such as the war plans. In this example, confidentiality is persevered but integrity is broken.

4. Explain the form of the labels we’re using.
	There are two kinds of levels. One to specify the secrecy of the data(Unclassified, Confidential, Secret and Top Secret) and one to specify the need to know information (Nuclear, Cryptographic, etc). For example the label (Secret:{Nuclear, Crypto}) means that someone with a clearance level of secret or above and need to know information of Nuclear and Crypto, can access the document. If one of those conditions isn't met then he cannot access that data.

5. Why do you suppose we’re not concerned with how the labels get there?
	Because we are concerned with confidentiality. The person assigning the levels does not need to read its contents, therefore confidentiality is preserved.

6. Rank the facts listed on slide 6 by sensitivity.
	The cafeteria is serving chopped beef on toast today.
	The base softball team has a game tomorrow at 3pm.
	Col. Jones just got a raise.
	Col. Smith didn't get a raise.
	The British have broken the German Enigma codes.
	The Normandy invasion is scheduled for June 6.

7. Invent labels for documents containing each of those facts.
	Unclassified {Menu}
	Unclassified {SportSchedule}
	Classified {EmployeeRank}
	Classified {EmployeeRank}
	TopSecret {NewsFeed}
	TopSecret {Warplan}

8. Justify the rules for “mixed” documents.
	The more information a user has, the more chance that information will be leaked. With this in mind it makes sense to give users as little as information as needed to do their job.

