Andrew Nguyen
an9395
anguyen1
anguyen11@utexas.edu

Lecture 1
1) Information security, homeland security, communications security, network 
   security, system security

2) All involve protection of something from something else.

3) Yes, received a new credit card after my old one was possibly compromised

4) Hopefully fairly low. I pay attention to which sites I visit and which 
   links I click to minimize the threat to my laptop. Malware checks rarely
   find threats.

5) Regularly run malware checks on my laptop. Be sure to not accidently 
   download random .exe files.

6) For the most part, yes. They regularly update to keep up with newest
   threats.

7) No I do not. Almost everything, from energy to defense, is handled via
   computer systems. If any of theses systems were to be compromised, the
   millions of people who depend on them would be in a lot of trouble.

8) Even if perfect security is impossible, we need to make computer systems
   are as secure as possible. Learning the fundamentals of computer security
   will allow security to be implemented early on in the development of
   computer systems rather than be tacked on later. It is better to prevent
   attacks from happening than to recover after an attack has occurred.

Lecture 2
1) Another reason is that it might not always be readily apparent that a 
   vulnerability is being exploited. You might not realize right away that
   an attacker has access to certain data, and that attacker could continue
   to read the confidential data until you discover the leak.

2) No, there are many different methods to attack a system, and even more
   potential places within a system to try each method to enumerate every
   single "bad thing" that can happen.

3) Defender must protect against attack of all kinds. Attack must only find
   one attack that works.

4) Yes, it is impossible to protect against every kind of attack. And even
   if there was a perfectly secure system, attackers will always be able to
   attack the human component.

5) Security requires the devotion of development time and computing resources
   that take away from other project goals. 

Lecture 3
1) Risk is the possibility that a particular threat will adversely impact an
   information system by exploiting a particular vulnerability.

2) Yes. It is impossible to protect everything perfectly, so certain threats
   should be focused on more heavily than others.

3) I accept that buying things online makes my credit card info vulnerable.
   I avoid giving out my password to other people to use my accounts.
   I mitigate the risk of someone discovering my password by using different
     passwords for different accounts.
   I transfer risk on my apartment by getting renter's insurance.

4) While ALE is a handy tool for risk management, it is not all-encompassing.
   It is unable to differentiate a single huge loss from a series of smaller
   losses. 

5) Technical, economic, psychological, 

Lecture 4
1) The items on slide 3 are mechanisms to protect the items on slide 2.

2) Integrity. The one thing I don't want an attacker to be able to do is to
   change my computer. I don't purchase much online so hiding my info is not
   as important to me as being sure that my laptop's integrity has been
   preserved.

3) Grouping and categorizing data refers to determining what needs to be
   protected the most and how to seperate it from less important data.

4) For example if someone switches jobs, that person should no longer be
   able to access what they could before at their old job.

5) If a transaction cannot be relied upon to execute the same way every time
   then that is a security threat. If you don't know what to expect then 
   you can't tell when your system has been compromised.

6) Online transactions, writing files

Lecture 5
1) cell phone network - ensure that cell phone users are able to get their 
     calls/messages through to the correct person
   military database - ensure that enemies cannot look at confidential info

2) A policy provides well-defined rules to achieve the metapolicy goals.

3) 1. A student's grades may only be revealed to that particular student
   2. Final grades are due on _____
   3. All grade changes after _____ must go through a dean

4) Yes. A student might want to be able to change his/her grade, but the
   school would not want students to have that ability.

5) Protect SSNs of students from getting into the wrong hands.

6) If you can't understand the security goals, then you can't understand the
   rules that are meant to ensure those goals are met. Without a clear
   metapolicy, a policy's rules are just arbitrary rules.

Lecture 6
1) Military security's primary concern is that only the right people are able
   to see information. They don't want anything to be leaked or any spies to 
   see something confidential . Integrity comes in when only the right people
   are able to change information. Availability is when people can get the info
   they need in a timely manner.

2) The major threat is someone having access to info that they aren't supposed
   to. 

3) Because the rules we establish don't account for integrity at all.

4) Labels are structured with a hierarchical component and a set of need-to-know
   categories

5) It's not our decision who is allowed to look at what. We are only concerned
   with whether or not a this person is allowed to look at something or not.

6) 1. Normandy invasion			most important
   2. broken German codes
   3. Col. Jones raise
   4. Col. Smith no raise
   5. chopped beef on toast today
   6. softball game tomorrow		least important

7) 1. tactical				numbers correspond to above
   2. crypto
   3. personnel
   4. personnel
   5. base
   6. base

8) A document that contains information in two differnt categories requires both
   security levels to be satisfied because we don't want someone from one group
   to have access to the other group's info if they aren't supposed to see it.

Lecture 7
1) Authorization levels

2) Labels on documents indicate the sensitivity of the contained info, while
   authorization levels indicate classes of info that a person is authorized 
   to access.

3) documents = files, humans = users

4) If you don't give info to someone then they can't leak it. No reason to add
   unnecessary risk.

5) 1. If they are trusted enough to see Secret then they are trusted enough to
      see Confidential
   2. They are only cleared to Secret, so they shouldn't be able to see Top
      Secret
   3. Anyone should be able to see Unclassified

Lecture 8
1) So that this particular thought experiment can be generalized later on.

2) Reflexive - for all x, x dominates x
   Transitive - if a dominates b AND b dominates c, then a dominates c
   Antisymmetric -  the only way for a to dominate b AND b dominate a is that
     a = b

3) Neither "Top Secret Crypto" nor "Top Secret Nuclear" dominates the other 

4) They would have to be the exact same label. 

5) A subject can only be granted read access to an object only if its level
   dominates the level of the object.

6) "Only if" allows for other constraints to be factored into whether or not
   read access is granted.

Lecuture 9
1) Also need to consider write access.

2) Can read Top Secret and write to Unclassified. This does not violate Simple
   Security and results in information moving down the chain.

3) Computer provides privilege to not only the human user but also to every
   program running, benign or malicious.

4) A subject can only be granted write access to an object only if its level
   is dominated by the level of the object.

5) The subject and the object must be at the same exact level.

6) Make the general move down to the Unclassifed level to send the message.

7) Yes. Either limit writes to only your exact level or eliminate writes all
   together.

Lecutre 10
1) Changing a subject's level up results in a low-level subject being able to
   look at high-level info so that would be bad. Lowering the level of a
   subject is fine so long as it doesn't retain any of the high-level info
   that it no longer has access to.

2) Less functionality

3) Now low-level subjects will be able to view high-level information.

4) Need to ensure that no extraneoud info is being downgraded and that only
   what you want to downgrade is being downgraded.

Lecture 11
1) Subjects have high security level, objects have low security level

2) Too big 

Lecture 12

1) Located in other file

                ( H, {A} )
              ^          ^     
             /            \       
           /               \       
       (H, {} )        (L, {A} )
              ^         ^              
               \       /                 
                \     /      
               ( L, {} )



2) To find the LUB, find the point from which no information can flow up.
   To find the GLB, find the point from which all information can flow up

3) In BLP, information can only flow upwards

Lecture 13
1) According to BLP, you can only read below your level or write above it.
   This should limit the flow of information to only from low to high.

2) Subjects can only READ if their level dominates that of the object. This
   follows simple security. Subjects may only WRITE if their level is
   dominated by that of the object. This satisfies the *-property. Thus
   READ and WRITE satisfy BLP.

3) CREATE simply does nothing if the object already exists so it satisfies
   BLP. DESTROY is similar to WRITE and it only does something if the level
   of the object dominates that of the subject. So it also satisfies BLP.

4) Both the high and low level subject need to be colluding together.

5) So that it can be put into a loop.

6) No. The low level subject can write to both high and low level objects.

7) Yes. Because it can't know what the high level subject has done yet.

8) If it wants to actually communicate information then yes, it must act
   differently.

9) If the low level subject can observe a change based on the actions of
   a high level subject, then the change can be used to signify either a
   1 or a 0, and thus communication is possible between the two.

Lecture 14
1) They are not a part of the system.

2) No. If F0 is a high level object then the low level subject can't read
   it. If F0 is a low level object then the high level subject can't write
   it. 

3) Whether or not the object exists.

4) The system clock could be used to know how much time was used by
   process p.

5) Which cylinder the read head is closer to

6) What value variable l is set to

7) Because it has to turn back on to communicate more info, thus taking a
   long time and having low bandwidth.

8) You would need to be able to view how much power has been consumed.

9) Laptops

Lecture 15
1) Because processors operate very quickly and can still transmit 
   thousands of bits per second.

2) There are too many of them, and there are probably times when they
   simply can't be avoided.

3) You can either eliminate it, reduce the bandwidth by introducing
   noise, or monitor it for use.

4) Example from earlier slideset. High level subject can create (or not) an
   object that the low level object can then write to. Whether or not it is
   allowed to read determines the bit transferred.

5) Sender creates (or not) an object. Receiver tries to create same object.
   Receiver writes to that object. Receiver tries to read the object. Whether
   or not it is successful determines the bit transferred. Destroy the object
   and repeat.

Lecture 16
1) CREATE doesn't tell you whether or not there was a file. It only tells you
   that there is now a file there. Thus you didn't learn any information.

2) That means that some attribute of the system can be both modified and 
   read. This provides an avenue for communication based on the value of that 
   attribute.

3) No. That means that a single command affects different system attributes
   in different ways. For a there to be a potential covert channel, there 
   would need to be a way to both modify AND read a single attribute.

4) It provides a systematic way to look at potential covert channels





















