Name: Jose Bigio
EID: jab7677
CS Login: jose
Email: josebigio@utexas.edu

Lecture 53
1. Why is it important for a digital signature to be non reusable?
	If I get a certified message from B, then I would be able to reuse the signature and impersonate B.

2. Why is it the hash of the message typically signed, rather than the message
itself?
	Because encrypting a hash is far less computational intensive

3. What assurance does R gain from the interchange on slide 4?
	That the message came from S
	That no one else read the message


Lecture 54

1. What is the importance of certificate authorities?
	Imagine S wants to send a message to R. A certificate authority has enough trustworthiness to guarantee to R that S is actually S.

2. In the example on slide 5, why does X sign the hash of the ﬁrst message
with its private key?
	So that later Z can use X's public key to open it. Then Z has the h({Y,Ky}). Then Z can hash {Y,Ky} and compare it. If they are the same then
	Z is 100% certain that X approves of Y.

3. Why is it necessary to have a hash of Y and Ky?
	So that Z can hash {Y,Ky} and then compare

4. What would happen if Z had a public key for X, but it was not trustworthy?
	It would be like asking Pinoccio if Y is trustworthy


Lecture 55
1. What happens at the root of a chain of trust?
	The most trustworthy subject(A0) certifies the public key of the next trustworthy person (A1). Basically A0 guarantees that
	A1 is who he says he is. Then A1 can do the same for A2 and so forth. 

2. Why does an X.509 certiﬁcate include a “validity interval”?
	To reduce the window of opportunity in case the private key gets compromised	

3. What would it mean if the hash and the received value did not match?
	That the message was forged. Or any of the fields from 1 to 10 was modified without the issuers approval.

Lecture 56
1. What are some protocols previously discussed?
	The Diffie–Hellman key exchange, Unisity

2. What may happen if one step of a protocol is ignored?
	The goal of the protocol will not be achieved

3. Why must the ciphers commute in order to accomplish the task in slide 4?
	Ideally they wouldn't commute. A would personally deliver the message to B. Unfortunately in the real world this is not possible so there needs to be a way to securely commute the message.
	
4. Describe how an attacker can extract M from the protocol in slide 6.
	First he could get Ka by xoring step2 and step3. Then he could xor step1 with Ka to get M

5. Describle how an attacker can extract Ka from the protocol in slide 6
	By xoring step2 with step3

6. Describle how an attacker can extract Kb from the protocol in slide 6.
	By xoring step2 with step1

7. Why are cryptographic protocols difficult to design and easy to get wrong?
	Because there are many external circumstances that no one every thinks about. For example the example in slide 6 seemed perfect at first sight. But if you consider an eavesdropper that accessed the 3 messages, it breaks.


Lecture 57

1. Explain the importance of protocols in the context of the Internet
	Because the Internet is one of the most hostile environments ever to exist. If one tries to communicate over the Internet willy nilly, there is a high chance something bad will happen. This is why protocols are paramount.

2. Explain the importance of cryptographic protocols in the context of the Internet
	Since we need protocols to securely pass information across the Internet, cryptographic protocols are best suited for digital data.

3. What are the assumptions of the protocol in slide 6?
	There is a pki in place
	Each of them has a reliable version of each others public key

4. What are the goals of the protocol in slide 6?
	That A and B have a shared key. A knows that B has the key vice-versa

5. Are the goals of the protocol in slide 6 satisfied? Explain.
	Yes. B knows the key came from A because only he had access to his private key. Because the message is sent back in the same way, A knows B has the private key he sent. 

6. How is the protocol in slide 6 ﬂawed?
	There is no certificate that proves A is A or B is B
	B doesn't know if anyone else has the key

Lecture 58

1. Why is it important to know if a protocol includes unnecessary steps or messages
	To see if it can be optimized. In the Internet one sends millions of messages per second. A minor improvement in efficiency could be dramatic.

2. Why is it important to know if a protocol encrypts items that could be sent in the clear
	Because encryption takes time. If some steps can be sent in the clear then the protocol can be faster

Lecture 59

1. Why might it be difﬁcult to answer what constitutes an attack on a cryptographic protocol
	Because the range of potential attacks is extremely broad. It all comes to the statement that the best attacks are the ones engineers never thought of.

2. Describe potential dangers of a replay attack.
	I record a message that from A to B that says "Yes". Then at a later moment when B sends A "Should we bomb the place?"; The attacker could send the stored "yes" message.

3. Are there attacks where an attacker gains no secret information? Explain.
	Yes. For example I could intercept an encrypted message and corrupt it. That way the receiver wont be able to decode the message but I still have no idea what the message was about.

4. What restrictions are imposed on the attacker?
	That the attacker can send arbitrary messages.

5. Why is it important that protocols are asynchronous?
	The more you know about the protocol, the more things an attacker can do. 


Lecture 60

1. Would the Needham-Schroeder protocol work without nonces?
	No because there wouldnt be any way of knowing which instance of the protocol is taking place.

2. For each step of the NS protocol, answer the two questions on slide 5.
	Step1: "Hey S, generate a pair of keys so me and B can communicate"; "A sent the message"
	Step2: "The message is fresh, and here is a key you can use to communicate with B and Vice-Versa";"S received A's specific message (because of the nonce) and S sent the message"
	Step3: "Hey B, here is a key we can use to communicate with each other"; "A wants to communicate with me using the Needham-Schroeder protocol. I can use this key to communicate with him"
	Step4: "Hey A, I received the key. Are you all set?";"B received the message"
	Step5: "Hey B, yes I am all set. Lets get this communication started";"A knows that I am ready to go"

Lecture 61

1. As in slide 5, if A’s key were later changed, after having Kas compromised,
how could A still be impersonated?
		By using the {Kab,A}Kbs ticket

2. Is it fair to ask the question of a key being broken?
	Yes. For example me and a lot of people give out their passwords to their emails for convenience sometimes. Usually this password is the same they use for everything. Humans cannot be trusted

3. How might you address these ﬂaws if you were the protocol designer?
	Set up a new symmetric key every 10 messages or so. Require everyone to change their private key every 10 days, etc/

Lecture 62
1. What guarantees does Otway-Rees seem to provide to A and B?
	It lets B know a symetric key which they can use to communicate. This is most likely true for A, but there is no guarantee that the message doesn't get lost.

2. Are there guarantees that Needham-Schroeder provides that Otway-Rees
does not or vice versa?
	Needham-Schroder guarantees to A that B is ready and visevesa. This is not true for Otway-Rees

3. How could you ﬁx the ﬂawed protocol from slide 4?
	Using a better one such as Otway-Rees.

Lecture 63

1. Why is the veriﬁcation of protocols important?
	Because like we have seen in the previous examples, protocols that look perfect after contemplating it for a long time, may still be flawed
2. What is a belief logic?
	A formal system for reasoning about beliefs
3. A protocol is a program; where do you think beliefs come in?
	A beleive is like the second question one needs to ask in any step of a protocol. (What is the receiver entitled to believe after receiving the
	message?)

Lecture 64

1. What is a modal logic?
	 a type of formal logic. It uses operators expressing modality

2. Explain the intuition behind the message meaning inference rule.
	If A is 100% sure that he has a shared key with B that they can communicate with; then if he ever sees a message signed with that key he can assume that B said it.

3. Explain the intuition behind the nonce veriﬁcation inference rule.
	A knows B said X. He also knows that X is fresh. With this two, A can be sure that B believes X

4. Explain the intuition behind the jurisdiction inference rule.
	Since A knows that B is superior to X and B trusts X, then A can also trust X.

5. What is idealization and why is it needed?
	To get from protocol steps to logical inferences. We need it so we can verify protocols

Lecture 65
1. Why do you think plaintext is omitted in a BAN idealization?
	Because it offers no guarantees. Anyone can interpret it

2. Some idealized steps seem to refer to beliefs that will happen later in the
protocol. Why would that be?
	Because the present is also composed of past and future actions

3. One beneﬁt of a BAN proof is that it exposes assumptions. Explain that.
	Like any other logic system, BAN forces you to write down every assumption you make. With this you can realize some assumptions that you had no idea where taking place
